---
layout: post
title: 2020 Goals
show-more-link: true
---

**New Year's resolutions aren't usually my thing,** but the stars aligned this time: this blog coincidentally came to life in a somewhat appropriate time; it should be my last year of presential classes, with a lower than average amount of classtime a week - so that should make things easier; and [it's also a new decade](https://xkcd.com/2249/)! With that in mind, I figured I would give it a shot with three main goals.

<!--more--> ---

**Go back to reading:** Before I discovered the shiny world of MMORPGs at around 10 years old, I used to read a lot. Like, over-500-pages-a-week a lot. Since then, I pretty much stuck to a rate of 2-3 non-academic reads a year, a count that's already been beaten for 2020 as I write this! I've been contemplating on getting a Kindle for some years now, so I finally bit the bullet and it should arrive on my doorstep in a couple days. I'll try to aim for at least a book a month, and I plan on listing them all in another post at the end of the year.

**Keep writing:** Well, pretty much this blog itself. The idea for it came somewhere around August 2019, but I only started actually building it on October. As said before on my [first post]({{site.baseurl}}/hi-what-is-this/), I found out I enjoyed writing more than I expected I would. It's also a great way to practice my written English skills, so that's a plus. However, I'm not going to quantify this one, as I would rather take the time to plan each post and pour myself on them, the goal is mainly to let this excitement be short-lived.

**Get an internship abroad:** Probably the hardest of all three, as it doesn't depend solely on myself. It's not easy, technically and psychologically speaking. Last year, I managed to get way more interviews with big tech companies than I expected, but I was either too unprepared or too early in my undergrad - in hindsight, probably both. This time, with the (hopefully) added free time from taking less courses, I do have some shiny plans and schedules in mind to prepare me for them, and I'm already working on it. No real way to put numbers on this, though, other than... aiming for at least one offer, I guess?

And, an extra one on a less serious note just because I feel like it:

**Go through my extensive game backlog:** I'm a convicted game hoarder, no doubt. According to [SteamDB](https://steamdb.info/calculator/76561198060441981/), just over half of my games on Steam have never been even launched, and I can assure that over 70% of the ones that have been are left unfinished. To be fair, it's been a while since I've made any big purchases, and a lot of them came as freebies or [bundled with other stuff](https://www.humblebundle.com/) so they aren't necessarily games I've ever intended to play. Even more relevantly, my time spent gaming has decreased sharply since I started uni, so that's my biggest excuse. Howerver, there are dozens of real gems buried in that mound, and I do want to go through them some time this year.

---

If you are also planning on doing something around these lines or just want a primer on the psychological aspects of New Year's resolutions, I do reccomend you to **check out Veritasium's amazing video on [Why Most Resolutions Fail & How To Succeed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pm9CQn07OjU).**